# Who is Bill Gates？
October 28, 1955, an well-educated couple gave birth to a baby named William Henry Gates III. Nicknamed Trey by his family, he would later become the wealthy computer genius, Bill Gates.

## Chapter 1. Born Genius
Bill, who was born in Seattle, Washington, had an older sister, Kristi, and a younger sister named Libby. Bill was very smart, smarter than others from the start. He spent hours thinking on his rocking horse. To him, thinking was a subject like reading and writing. Bill loved to read too. When he was 7, he decided to read the whole encyclopedia! At a church contest, he memorized the 17 paged Sermon on the Mount bible passage! Only Bill didn’t make a mistake, even though he was only 11 years old! As a reward, he had dinner on top of the space needle！Though in school, 6th  grade was getting dull for him. It was time for a change, and Bill’s parents knew it. So they sent him to Lakeside Private School.

## Chapter 2. Lakeside Lifechanger
Bill excelled at math and science, but didn’t have a particular interest. This changed in 1968, when a teacher brought Bill and a few classmates to a computer room. This computer room, oddly, didn’t have computers! Computers, at the time, were too big and expensive for a private school like Lakeside! So instead, Lakeside bought a teletype connected to a computer in downtown Seattle. The teacher showed them how to type a command. While she typed, the teletype punched holes in a spool of paper tape. Soon, the message was speeding through a wire to the remote computer. Then, the computer responded to the teletype. Bill was amazed! From then on, Bill tried to learn all he could about computers. Suddenly, he had a focus for his sharp mind: Computers!

## Chapter 3. Learning the new language
The kids that loved computers joined together to form a computer club. They called themselves the Lakeside Programmers. Soon, they were writing their own programs. Bill, who enjoyed challenges, was perfect for the computer. Every program was like a test. Every part of the code had to be right for the program to work.

Though he was smart, Bill was still younger than the other club members. This soon caused a problem, as Bill was kicked out of the club because the members thought he was too young. He, though, was soon invited back since he knew things others didn’t.

Computer time, though, was not free. The company that owned the computer, General Electric, charged the school $89 per month for rent. They also charged the boy $8 for an hour of computer time. At the time, this was expensive. At first, the Lakeside Mothers club paid, but they ran out of money soon. So, they found a job at Computer Center Corporation. The job was to find bugs, or flaws in the code. But soon, the company crashed down. Bill and a boy named Paul Allen wrote a traffic measuring program called Traf-O-Data. It earned them $20,000! Then, they helped the teachers write a program to make schedules after merging with an all-girls school. As a reward, they earned $5,000 dollars worth of computer time. In 1973, Bill graduated from Lakeside School and prepared to go to Harvard University

## Chapter 4. Software Success               
When Bill was studying in Havard, Paul Allen, who was in Boston, read a magazine about a cheap, new minicomputer called Altair 8800. Immediately, Paul rushed to Bill. They were both delighted by this! It was the first minicomputer kit that was cheap enough for most people. Unfortunately, there were only hard-ware, or hard, touchable parts of the computer. There was no software. Without software, it couldn’t do anything; Like a airplane without fuel. The boys decided to write the software themselves. Bill called the company that built the minicomputer, Micro Instrumentation Telemetry System (MITS) if they were interested in seeing it. They were. Oops! Bill said they were  almost done, but they actually didn’t start yet! And they only had two months. They worked crazily and finished on time! Though they didn’t have an Altair to work on, they made a big computer act like a small one. Paul was chosen to travel to Albuquerque, where MITS was. He was led to the quiet Altair, sitting lifelessly on a messy table when he arrived at MITS. Then it was time to show their work. Paul was nervous. They haven’t tried it on an actual Altair before. Will it work? Finally the code was tested. “Print 2+2” was typed in. It worked! This was the pair's first of many successes. And  young Bill Gates was only 19.

## Chapter 5. Micro-Soft? Microsoft!
Later, MITS bought Bill and Paul’s program. With the new deal, they needed a name for their company. They named it Micro-soft because they were making software for microcomputers. Soon, they changed to Microsoft. At first, it was only a name. Paul was working full time on MITS and Bill was back to Havard. Bill wasn’t focused on school, though. He wanted to go back to Albuquerque, to Microsoft. So, in 1975, Bill took a time-out from collage. Paul worked  part-time and Bill worked full, as they began new projects. Bill’s parents didn’t want Bill to drop out of school, so Bill went back. Bill just couldn’t stop thinking about Microsoft. Later, Bill left for sure and came to Microsoft again. Paul soon joined Bill full time, and they adopted a slogan, “a computer on every desk and in every home”. This was a crazy goal and thought back then. In 1979, they decided to go back to the green. Microsoft moved to Bellevue, Washington. 

## Chapter 6. A Life Changing Deal
At Bill’s time, IBM was the biggest computer maker, which made giant and mainframe computers. IBM then wanted to get into the small computer business. So, they went to Microsoft. IBM hired Microsoft to do the software and the operating system. In 1981, IBM showed its first microcomputer, a PC (personal computer). Every PC was run by MS-DOS. This stood and still stands for Microsoft Disk Operating System. Sales skyrocketed!

By selling clones of MS-DOS to other companies, Microsoft’s growth was giant. Soon MS-DOS was the standard operating system around the world. By 1983, there were 500 employees working at Microsoft. 

At meetings with Bill, programmers had to be prepared. Every idea had to be well thought out to be worked on. But no matter how much shouting Bill did, he would end the meeting by quietly saying okay. 

Unfortunately, Paul found that he had Hodgkin's disease in 1982. This type of cancer can often be cured. A year later, when Paul was healthy, he left Microsoft. He has been feeling very stressed in arguing about ideas when Bill thought it was fun to do so. 

## Chapter 7. Quick!
Bill liked to move fast, and so was the industry! In 1985, a new PC update would change PCs forever. THis big advancement was Windows and mice, computer mice! Before, users had to remember commands and type them. Now, they could just point the pointer (mouse) and the system would open. Windows worked when two or more systems were opened at the same time. At the time, this was new. But Apple used the mouse before, and Apple sued Microsoft for taking its design. Microsoft won in court, showing their different design. In 1986, Microsoft was taken public. This meant everyone could buy pieces of Microsoft stock. They were sold so quickly. Bill Gates and Paul Allen became millionaires overnight! By 1987, Bill became a billionaire! 

## Chapter 8. End of Single Life
At 31 years old, Bill still had no wish to marry. Business was still his first love. Then, at age 32, he met Melinda French. She was obviously smart, independent, and fun. It wasn’t long before the two started going out. On New Year’s Day 1994, Bill and Melinda married. They were in Hawaii. Even though this was world news, they kept privacy. They rented all the hotel’s rooms and hired all the helicopters. 

In 1996, their first child was born, named Jennifer Katharine. Three years later, Rory John, their first son, was born. Then, in 2002, Phoebe Adele, joined in. Bill’s dream house was finished too. The technology, of course, was very modern. Guests can wear a badge with a tiny microchip that contains their favorite things. When they walk into a room, their favorite music plays, their favorite art is shown on the wall. The temperature and lighting is automatically adjusted to the person’s preference. 

## Chapter 9. Internet
In the 1990s, the internet started becoming widespread. At first, Bill ignored it. But suddenly, he noticed its importance. Like with a snap of a hypnoticion’s fingers, he suddenly noticed the Internet’s importance. He told all of Microsoft to think of it as top priority. In 1995, Microsoft launched its first Internet browser: Internet Explorer. To catch up with the other Internet programs that were already widely used, like Netscape’s,  anyone that got windows (a lot of people), received Internet Explorer for free. Though this time, Bill’s actions took him to legal trouble, Microsoft was taken to court. Why? It’s illegal to prevent competition from other companies. Everyone who had MS-DOS basically had Internet Explorer. And that was a lot of people. To the lawsuit, this was unfair. Even on trial, though, Bill still seemed arrogant. He stated that Microsoft spends millions on research every year. Punishing a company for success is a threat to innovation. The court, though, did not agree. In 2000,  a judge ordered Microsoft split into two. Luckily, in 2002, the court was turned on Microsoft's side, and Microsoft stayed as one.

## Chapter 10. Giving the money
Though Bill often thought about Microsoft all day long, other problems have caught his mind. Many people in Bill’s life were very generous.  His mother worked for charity. Warren buffet, a close friend, urged him to give to the poor. But the biggest impact was Melinda. The new wife was a complete believer in helping others. In 2000, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation was created. One day, Bill read a report about children in poorer countries dying of Malaria, Polio, and Yellow Fever. They could be saved by a vaccine that cost a few cents! Bill showed it to Melinda. They were both astonished! In 2000, Bill stepped down from CEO of Microsoft. He handed it to Steve Ballmer, a college friend at Microsoft. Then he got ready to work full-time on their foundation.

June 27, 2008, when Bill was 52 years old, he retired. He was head of Microsoft for 33 years.

## Chapter 11. Retired Life 
In 2007, Bill finally got a degree. He got an honorary degree from Havard. 

In March, 2010, Bill was named 2nd richest person on earth. “Obviously, I don’t care,” he said. This has happened because he gave $28 billion to his foundation by then. Bill drove himself to work like before. He worked to cure disease, and lift extreme poverty. Bill, as before, loved his job. He and Melinda traveled to different places to get an “introduction” on problems. The couple often visited scientists for their research. They needed to decide which problems were worth helping on. In free time, Bill liked to read and play tennis. He also likes the card game bridge. But how busy he got, Melinda and the kids were always part.

## Chapter 12. Covid Work
In 2019, a disaster struck. The covid-19! And one of the world’s biggest vaccine producers had a problem. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of the Serum Institute of India needed about $850 million just to start producing doses of the covid vaccine. So, he turned to Bill, who had known Adar for years. Bill was also trying to help deal with the covid. At the end of their conversation, Bill promised $150 million to the Indian company from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. By September, 2020, the foundation doubled its commitment. Along with the World Health Organization, which depends on the Gates Foundation as a big donor, Bill and Melinda have played a key role in the making of the vaccine and its spread. 

## Chapter 13. Divorce! 
After 27 years of marriage, Bill and Melinda were having arguments and hardships. For many of the past years, they have helped people have healthy, happy lives. The couple founded the Giving pledge with Warren Buffet, encouraging the wealthy to give away money for good courses. 

“After a great deal of thought and a lot of work on our relationship, we have made the decision to end our marriage.” Bill Gates shared it on Twitter on May 3, “over the last 27 years, we have raised three incredible children and built a foundation that works all over the world to enable all people to lead healthy, productable lives.”

Melinda has been meeting with lawyers for the divorce. Newspapers reported the “friendship” of Bill and Jeffrey Epstein. Melinda has been worrying about this relationship. Bill, though, has denied any friendship or business relationship with Jeffery Epstein. Fortunately, Bill and Melinda had said they will continue working together on their foundation.  

## Chapter 14 Conclusion 
Now, because of Bill Gates, a computer sits on almost every desk and every home. And even with some hardships, he continues to help others as much as he can. 
